we're going to begin this news AIS with
videos emerging out of Gaza appearing to
show summary executions of Palestinians
by Israeli soldiers Al jazer has
obtained the videos and let me give you
a warning some of you might find them
disturbing we're choosing not to show
the moment of death in the videos they
were taken around arid Street that's the
coastal Road connecting North and South
Gaza Israel has designated it as a safe
zone for Palestinians wanting to move
between the areas this footage is from
June 1st it shows a person walking along
the beach Israeli soldiers appear to
have stopped them and moments later the
person is shot this next video is set to
show a group of Palestinians walking
North on May 17th one of them steps out
of the group and raises their hands in
the air apparently showing that they're
unarmed they're shot within minutes then
the video appears to show soldiers
coming in to take the person's body
away and in this footage another person
is standing in the same area with their
hands in the air this is shortly before
their shot by Israeli Soldiers the same
then happens to another person later
we're going to bring in Anthony
Lowenstein he's the author of The
Palestine laboratory it's a book on
Israel's arms and surveillance industry
he's joining us live from Sydney thank
you very much indeed for being with us I
I wanted you to help me out with some
context first of all geographically um
what's your understanding of where the
safe Zone was at this
time well the truth is there is no safe
Zone as every viewer will know I mean
Israel has claimed at various points in
the last eight plus months that certain
parts of Gaza were safe zones
particularly in the last month or so for
example where around 800,000 to a
million Palestinians from Rua moved
slightly away from the border um on
Egypt but there was no safe Zone because
those areas were also bombed so there
are no safe zones despite what Israel
claims and this set of footage that
you're showing is just yet the latest
example of the complete ality really and
unaccountability of Israeli forces there
without any kind of Rules of Engagement
of course Israeli military says their
Rules of Engagement if you ask them
directly but as we've seen for a long
time in Gaza and frankly long before
October 7 those Rules of Engagement are
lacks at best one of the um when it
comes to situations like this one of the
arguments that are or defenses shall we
say that is in put forward by the
Israeli military is that individuals
would POS some sort of threat to the
Troops or they were encroaching on some
sort of military installation you've
seen the pictures what's your
interpretation would that argument stand
up no is the short answer and it's
similar to what we saw I think about a
month or so ago also in alier from
footage Drone footage of Palestinians
unarmed who are walking in an open field
nothing near a military installation who
were shot dead a number of them and this
is a fits into a long-standing pattern
and almost certainly if Israel does
respond to this they will say yes we'll
investigate it was against the rules of
engagement we deeply apologize but it's
never goes anywhere and that's similar
to what we've seen for example of huge
amounts of Israeli soldiers documenting
on Tik Tok and other social media
platforms are there abuses of
Palestinians the humiliation of
Palestinians and the idea that there's a
particular safe Zone I think also goes
to the heart of what Israel's creating
in Gaza which is large buff zones that
in the current negotiations for a
so-called ceasefire which appear to be
stalled yet again there is a talk a
demand from Hamas that all Israeli
forces would inevitably withdraw in a
reasonable amount of time but Israel has
been creating for months largely out of
the International Eye buffer zones where
around 16 to 20% of Gaza has essentially
being gobbled up by this so-called
buffer zone and there's no suggestion
for that they would ever leave that
buffer zone essentially allowing them
access in the North and the South of
Gaza anytime they want when and if the
war ends so the idea of safe zones are a
myth tragically we are talking about a
war zone and soldiers combat troops
Under Fire um can be under significant
stress is there anything in these
pictures to indicate that the soldiers
may have been responding um to a
stressful
situation look not that we're saying
obviously it's possible to know exactly
what happened before this footage and
what happened slightly after but it fits
into a long-standing pattern as I say of
Israeli soldiers being trigger happy and
this has been since October 7 along the
Israel Gaza border for years we only
have to remember a number of years ago
the so-called Gaza March of return where
thousands of Palestinians were shot many
of them maimed forever for simply
walking towards a fence in Gaza and huge
numbers of alians were killed as well so
yes Israeli soldiers would feel under
threat that's no doubt true because it's
a war zone but that does not justify any
kind of killing of unarmed civilians
nothing justifies that whatsoever
Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly
referred to the Israeli military as the
most moral army in the world do these
pictures reflect
that I mean the idea that in 20124 the
Israeli government and many it of its
supporters claim that there's any such
thing as a moral Army I mean the concept
of armies by definition You could argue
are immoral and what I mean by that is
that if you look at the US military in
the last 20 years Iraq or Afghanistan or
the Israeli military in Gaza or the West
Bank or frankly Lebanon in the last
years immorality is the point Mass
killing is the point Mass Slaughter is
the point as we've seen in Gaza since
October 7 the idea of having potentially
40 to 50,000 Palestinians killed the
vast majority of whom are civilians no
one really buys this argument that
Israel is a moral Army its greatest
backers and supporters might support
that or believe that delusion but no one
who's rational does and that's why in
many parts of the world now particularly
young people in the US Israel's image
has tanked completely tanked and that's
the problem that Israel is going to have
moving forward atie L winstein we
appreciate you being with us in Al so
thank you very much indeed for your
time thank
you make sure to subscribe our channel
to get the latest news from alaz